# ZiBRA 1 Data

This repository contains the sequence datasets, BEAST XML files and tree files used for the publication "Establishment and cryptic transmission of Zika virus in Brazil and the Americas" (Faria et al. Nature 2017, doi: [10.1038/nature22401](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature22401)).

## Abstract

_Transmission of Zika virus (ZIKV) in the Americas was first
confirmed in May 2015 in northeast Brazil. Brazil has had the highest
number of reported ZIKV cases worldwide.
Since the initial detection of ZIKV in Brazil, more than 45 countries in
the Americas have reported local ZIKV transmission, with 24 of these
reporting severe ZIKV-associated disease. However, the origin and
epidemic history of ZIKV in Brazil and the Americas remain poorly
understood, despite the value of this information for interpreting
observed trends in reported microcephaly. Here we address this issue
by generating 54 complete or partial ZIKV genomes, mostly from
Brazil, and reporting data generated by a mobile genomics laboratory
that travelled across northeast Brazil in 2016. One sequence represents
the earliest confirmed ZIKV infection in Brazil. Analyses of viral
genomes with ecological and epidemiological data yield an estimate
that ZIKV was present in northeast Brazil by February 2014 and is
likely to have disseminated from there, nationally and internationally,
before the first detection of ZIKV in the Americas. Estimated dates for
the international spread of ZIKV from Brazil indicate the duration
of pre-detection cryptic transmission in recipient regions. The role
of northeast Brazil in the establishment of ZIKV in the Americas
is further supported by geographic analysis of ZIKV transmission
potential and by estimates of the basic reproduction number of the
virus._

## Alignments
The sequence datasets used in the analyses.

## Analyses 
BEAST XML files and tree files for analyses reported in the paper.






